# PHP Comparisons

## Strict and Loose Comparisons

ATutor v2.2.1 has a vulnerability revolving around the use of loose comparisons of user-controlled variables, resulting in the execution of **implicit data type conversions, known as Type Juggling.** 

- PHP does not support explicit type definitions in variable declaration, and a variable’s type is determined by the context in which the variable is used.

This can cause issues when used in comparison operations, leading to unintended interpretations. 

- This resulted in the concept of **strict comparisons** `===` in PHP, which compares both the data values and the type associated with them. Until PHP7, **Loose comparisons** `==` only make use of context to understand data types. However, strict comparisons are seldom used due to developers’ unfamiliarity.
- Strict comparisons should be used for all comparisons, especially when involving user-controlled variables.

## String Conversion to Numbers

When a string is evaluated in numeric context, the resulting value/type are determined as follows:

- If string does not contain `.eE` and the numeric value fits into integer type limits (`PHP_INT_MAX`), the string will be evaluated as integer.
- Otherwise, it will be evaluated as float.
    - The value is given by initial portion of string. If string starts with valid numeric data, then that is used, otherwise 0 is used.
- Valid numeric data: optional sign, ≥ digits with optional decimal point, optional exponent
- Strings that are digits, e, digits `0e1111` , and the string is used in a numeric context (i.e. compared to another number), it is evaluated as a number.